The situation in Venezuela has become
critical. Violence has spread throughout
Caracus. Food and other basic essentials
are in shortage. The people are fed up
and are reacting in anger. These are
Venezuela's dark days. You came here for
the
truth. This was an amazing, simple, and
yet detailed article out of Reuters. It
breaks down simply what's happening
giving you a basic understanding of the
situation. I want to read it for you. So
if you will please let me share this
with you now. Venezuela's dark days.
Venezuela's fortunes rise and fall with
the price of oil. And when crude prices
tanked in 2014, its economy was thrown
into chaos. A government that had relied
on oil revenues to fund the social
spending suddenly came up short of hard
currency for imports causing a shortages
of every kind. Nicholas Maduro's
government struggles to contain the
crisis. Hundreds of thousands of people
have taken to the streets to protest his
government. So, let me scroll through
these here. I don't want to cover every
single word of this article, but let me
just cover the points. You can see this
um really good infographic. Oil
dependence. Venezuela has been heavily
reliant on oil for around a century.
When Hugo Chavez came to power in 1999,
the OPEC nation obtained around 80% of
its export revenue from what one former
oil minister once called the devil's
excrement. Now some 94% of export
revenue comes from oil. clearly very
important to Venezuela since the price
has been subdued from its peak. You have
seen the turmoil there. That is a
fact. A nation of inflation. The
government has not published inflation
data for more than a year. However,
annual rates are well into the triple
digits and are expected to soar higher.
You can see the chart on the left hand
side. That's the oil price, US dollar
per barrel coming down. From 2008, you
had it about 150. Then there was a
decline. It came back up. And you can
see that it was around this mark of over
a hundred, $110 a barrel, right when
Moduro takes office. Now, ever since
that moment, they've had even more
problems. And having the price of oil
take a dive certainly hasn't helped. You
could see the inflation numbers on the
right-h hand chart clearly, very clear
that it has spiked into astronomical
levels. That brings me into my next
point. If I scroll down even further,
we're looking at this. This is their
currency. So, there are different
exchange rates and it gets a little
messy. I don't want to cover everything.
Let me just see what I can point out
very quickly. Venezuela's current
currently has two official exchange
rates, but both of them overvalue the
boulevard leading to the formation of a
black market rate. And this is what the
people from Venezuela have told me that
this is actually a fact. This is not
some mainstream propaganda. The Maduro
government has responded to inflation by
printing higher denomination bills.
However, these are scarce and the
largest value note, the 20,000
Boloulevard bill, is worth less than $4
on the black market. The most common
note, the 100 Boloulevard bill, is worth
a meager 2 cents. So, what we're looking
at here is a devaluation of the currency
by far. There is very little value left
in these. And unfortunately there will
be a point in the near future where they
become no different than the Zimbabwe
dollars. Look at this varying prices.
You can see on the left hand side the
exchange rate here in the black market
being so different from the other
exchange rates. It's extreme the way
that it is. But people have to go to the
black market to buy some things. When
they get desperate, what can they do?
The only unfortunate part is that as
time goes on, that black market pricing
is actually uh pushing them. They become
out of their league. The supply of the
currency has expanded dramatically.
You'll see that with the chart on the
right. Is it Maduro's fault? I don't
necessarily think it's all based on
Maduro. But ever since he's come in,
he's definitely hasn't hasn't made
anything better. At least that's the way
it looks to me as an outsider. On the
black market, the Boloulevard currency
has fallen well over 99%, not bad,
against the dollar since President
Maduro was elected in 2013 after Hugo
Chavez death. That means that $1,000
saved in the local currency would now be
worth less than $5. Additionally, the
country's money supply, the sum of cash
together with checking, savings, and
other deposits is up 230% in the last
year. The fastest rise since the records
began in 1940. And the United States
money supply was up 6% in that same
time. Look at what's happening there
right now. As you can see, the
devaluation of the currency. So, I ask
you as an individual, do you think that
those in Venezuela should keep their
money in cash? Well, the fact is that
they should not. Now, some of the people
who have some money, not necessarily the
richest of the rich people, but you know
those few in the middle class, had they
been able to purchase any form of asset,
maybe a piece of land, maybe a cheap
house here or there, the little fixer
upper, they may have had options if they
had a little bit of cash on hand. Those
assets have appreciated dramatically.
Now, they may not be worth anymore. and
the city may be going to rubble at this
point, but it doesn't matter for them
because they've been able to maintain
their value. Things have gone up in
price because the currency has been
devalued. So, the same thing applies
elsewhere. I've used this as an example
consistently because it is the crystal
ball for the rest of the world. Let's go
here. As you look at this price points,
I I thought this was interesting because
it compared to real world things like 1
kilo of avocados. And you can see that
it is excessively expensive truly. And
you can see that right here. Look at the
750 mls of juice, 1 kilo of onions. I
mean, everything is costing a lot when
you measure it in their currency. Here
is a look at the cost of some of the
basic goods in Venezuela at the various
exchange rates. Prices were recorded
from a supermarket in the affluent
district here in Karacus May 2017. So
when you compare the different
currencies though, you get a very
different picture. I thought that was
funny the way that it all works. Rising
and
falling. Many prices are disparagingly
equated to units of the monthly minimum
wage in Venezuela. This meal cost six
monthly minimum wages. People will say,
"Think about that." President Maduro has
raised wages 15 times since he took
office, calling it a world record.
However, in dollar terms, the minimum
wage has fallen significantly. Does that
surprise you? Well, I'm I'm sure it
doesn't. Does doesn't surprise me
either. That's why I think that the
hiking of the minimum wage is very silly
as it happens in the US and Canada and
other places. They want to bring the
wage to $15, for example. They'll do so,
but that's not enough. So then they'll
go to 20 and that's not enough and
they'll go to 25 and meanwhile people
are getting hurt more and more and more.
It doesn't help. You know, this is what
you do to try to keep yourself in
office. And you'll have supporters
saying, "Look, hey, he's doing he's
doing what he can. It's those people
over there. They are the ones who are
bad. Anyway, you measure it in dollars,
you can see that it has gone up
significantly. The uh boloulevard versus
the
dollars. Sorry, that was in measured in
boloulevards. Look at it in dollars. You
can see that it has been devalued
significantly. You could see that
difference there. When you look at it in
boloulevards, clearly this money supply
has expanded even faster than that in
the United States. So this currency will
be destroyed and the people will be hurt
significantly. I'm sorry to be the
bearer of bad news. That is just a fact.
You can see on the left hand side the
protests that have taken place against
the uh military and the police. Then in
the middle you have the stores that are
being looted. On the right hand side,
you have those uh mothers with their
children trying to get things like
diapers and everything else. They'll be
waiting for hours and hours on end. And
uh they can hope that they'll get what
they need. Unfortunately, many of the
people in the lineups don't get what
they need. With the greatest oil riches
in the world, Venezuela's people seek
food in rubbish. The elderly faint in
lines to seek food and medicines. It's
as if we are victims of a curse. that is
the president of Venezuela's National
Assembly. You don't know what's really
going on there. You don't know what's
just propaganda coming from either side.
But we know the situation's really bad.
It's getting much worse. And that
doesn't really surprise
me for a second. Whenever a country is
able to get hold of
their basically the the whole situation
when when they take control totalitarian
systems okay whatever you want to call
them socialism or anything else I don't
like to give them names totalitarian
let's go with that and this here is
maximum control that's what it is they
take control of everything there's a
problem with the water supply okay the
government takes over the water supply.
There's a problem with the internet.
Okay, the government tries to take over
the internet. They just want to take
control over everything. They're like a
virus. They're like a cancer consuming
the host and ultimately killing it. And
that's what happens. But that's all the
government knows how to do is take more
and more and more and more. And a very
few select people get away with it. But
the majority of people end up getting
screwed over. That's it for this video.
If you found it informative, please give
me a thumbs up. I really thought it was
so important just to cover this one
video and one article here. And I hope
you that you enjoyed the infographics,
the charts, and everything else. I'll
end it right there. If you want to know
more about this, then you have to be a
subscriber on this YouTube channel. It's
very important. We are over 50,000
subscribers on the channel. The channel
continues to grow. I cover news from all
over the world. This is not a US focused
or Canada focused channel. I've got news
from all over the world. I've got
literally all the different countries
around the world. If I haven't gotten to
them yet, I will. I assure you. I'm
going to bring out more and more and
more videos. Try to bring this and make
this a global show because I know
there's so many people in different
countries that are just dying for some
information. Well, lo and behold, you
will find it here. So, check this out at
either on YouTube or the
moneygps.com. I'll see you soon.